To run the server, you will need to SSH into an Ubuntu Server. Then, install the LAMP stack and Apache web server. Then also, install and configure MySQL database server, PHP components, and install git on the server. To be able to run our system, you will need to first clone our Github repository within the server. Inside the repository you will find 4 folders labeled assets, css, php, and sql. We then have the files called index for the homepage and a results.html.

The database was drafted and built using the most updated (12/2018) version of MySQL. The tables and key dependencies were formed using an EER diagram and forward engineered into valid SQL code to run on the Apache server. Updates and deletions to the tables within the database should be performed while connected to the server using the established php and AQS protocols.  
The database itself is constructed from 3 tables that share a connection through the linking recipe_ingredients table. This many to many table uses 2 foreign keys to map to the primary keys of the Recipe and Ingredients table. This many to many relationship allows us to quickly iterate over our expansive list of products as well as not have to repeat ingredients within the ingredients table. Since each ingredient can me linked to multiple instances from the recipe table, this prevents cluster an overlapping elements.
To iterate over this database you will use the primary key recipe_id in the recipe database to match up the list of ingredients required to make the dish. This primary key maps to multiple instances within the recipe_ingredients table. Searches through the database can be performed via strings using the recipe name column of the recipe database or by ingredient in the ingredient name column in the ingredients table.
